---
title: KWoC | Kharagpur Winter Of Code 2017 | Project Report
---
## About KWoc
Kharagpur Winter Of Code is a 5-week long online program to introduce open source software development to students. It is open for all students from various colleges.

It provides a glimpse of what contributing to an open source project means. It is kind of ground work for Google Summer Of Code. For students who want to participate in Google Summer Of Code, but confused about its procedures and have doubts, Kwoc is a good opportunity for them. I am also one of them.

## Choosing the Project 
This is a very important step and we have to choose projects carefully. The list of projects was available on kwoc.kossiitkgp.in/projects with their details and mentors' name.  I went through all projects and came to select 3-4 projects. By going through each of these projects in more detail, I finally decided to contribute on the project -[notes_app](https://github.com/prabhakarpd7284/notes_app) whose mentor was  Ankita Sahoo. I mailed her and told I wanted to work on this. She told me a few things to start from.

## Learning version control system
I had used github before but had very little experience with git. So, I did a tutorial on git and github on [Udacity](https://in.udacity.com/course/how-to-use-git-and-github--ud775). I dedicated some time in learning git commands.

## 1st PR
This issue was to add, edit and delete notes without leaving the page. I searched the internet and was able to write a snippet of code which did the above job. This PR got merged without any issue. This boosted my confidence and then I started working on other issues. I created another PR, then another one and this process went till last week of December.

Thus, my little journey came to an end. But I think this is my new start towards open source software development. I would like to thanks KWoC for providing this platform to students like me. I have learned a lot of things doing this project and also learnt how to work in collaboration with other contributors.